---
layout: post
category: 面试
title: LiveRamp考题
tagline: by Archer
tags:
- 面试
- OA
- LiveRamp

---

LiveRamp第一轮OA,要求写出青蛙过河问题的思路想法，用英文描述，之前查过，我就在这里写了

Normal dynamic programming method is way to slow O(n2). So here I used another method.
Because the request for time performance is 
Because the frog can jump a distance from 0 to D. So we can separate the whole distance between 0 and X to X/D + 1 gap.
Start in any position of a separate gap, the frog can directly jump to any position in the same gap after current position if there is a leaf there. 
So (1)In the same gap,the frog can jump as far as it can as long as there is a leaf on that position.
But for jumping between different gaps.We have to consider not only the leaf position but also D, distance the frog can jump. The requirement is that:
(2)For different gaps, the next position frog wants to jump has to have a leaf and the distance between current position of frog(in the first part) and the next position of the frog(in the second part) has to be within D.

We can simply putting this requirement as there is a connection between two gaps.

So what is the earliest time the frog can jump across the river? 
(3) When every gap are connected. The frog can jump across the river.

So here is my solution:
I use a data structure named Gap to represent the gap. .. For each gap, the only info that matter is the left-most and right-most leaf within that gap. So there is fromPos and toPos recording that info in Gap.

(1)I used a array of Gap to represent the river.
(2)The ultimate goal is to find if every gaps are connected with each other. So I used a boolean array isConnected to indicate whether this gap is connected with the gaps before and after it.
(3)If we go over the isConnected[] to see if every gap is connected every time a leaf falls down. It will be time-consuming. So instead I keep a disconnectedGapsCount to record the number gaps that has not been connected 
代码如下：

{% highlight java %}
    private class Gap {
        public int fromPos;
        public int toPos;

        public Gap(int from, int to) {
            fromPos = from;
            toPos = to;
        }
    }

    int solution(int A[], int X, int D) {
        Gap[] gaps = new Gap[X / D + 1];
        for (int i = 0; i < gaps.length; i++) {
            gaps[i] = new Gap(Integer.MAX_VALUE, Integer.MIN_VALUE);
        }
        gaps[0].fromPos = 0;
        gaps[0].toPos = 0;
        gaps[gaps.length - 1].fromPos = X;
        gaps[gaps.length - 1].toPos = X;
        int disconnectedGapsCount = gaps.length - 2;
        boolean[] isConnected = new boolean[gaps.length];
        isConnected[0] = true;
        isConnected[isConnected.length - 1] = true;
        
        for (int i = 0; i < A.length; i++) {
            int currentPos = A[i];
            int currentPosGap = currentPos / D;
            gaps[currentPosGap].fromPos = Math.min(gaps[currentPosGap].fromPos, currentPos);
            gaps[currentPosGap].toPos = Math.max(gaps[currentPosGap].toPos, currentPos);
            if (currentPosGap == 0 || currentPosGap == gaps.length - 1) {
                continue;
            }
            Gap currentGap = gaps[currentPosGap];
            Gap previousGap = gaps[currentPosGap - 1];
            Gap nextGap = gaps[currentPosGap + 1];

            if ((currentGap.fromPos - previousGap.toPos) <= D && (nextGap.fromPos - currentGap.toPos) <= D  && !isConnected[currentPosGap]) {
                disconnectedGapsCount--;
                isConnected[currentPosGap] = true;
            }
            if (disconnectedGapsCount <= 0)
                return i;
        }
        return -1;

        // boolean[] hasLeaf = new boolean[X + 1];
        // hasLeaf[0] = true;
        // hasLeaf[X] = true;
        // int currentPos = 0;
        // for(int i = 0; i < A.length; i ++){
        //
        // }

    }
{% endhighlight %}



这个是DP的方法
{% highlight java %}
  int solution(int A[], int X, int D){
     //D表示青蛙步长，X为河岸距离（0...X,中间有X-1片可以放落叶）
     int[] dp = new int[X + 1];
     HashMap<Integer, Integer> earliestTime = new HashMap<Integer,Integer>();
     //Initialize
     earliestTime.put(0, 0);
     earliestTime.put(X, 0);
     for(int i =0; i < A.length; i ++){
     if(!earliestTime.containsKey(A[i])){
     //只取最早的落叶时间
     earliestTime.put(A[i], i);
     }
     }
     dp[0] = 0;
     for(int i = 1; i < dp.length; i ++){
     //Doesn't have a leaf
     if(!earliestTime.containsKey(i)){
     dp[i] = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
     continue;
     }
     int result = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
     int j = i - 1;
     //Not over the origin and within lap length
     while(j >= 0 && i - j <= D){
     result = result < dp[j] ? result: dp[j];
     j --;
     }
     dp[i] = Math.max(earliestTime.get(i),result);
     // dp[i] = result < A[i] ? result: A[i];
     }
     System.out.println();
     return dp[dp.length-1];
     }
{% endhighlight %}
核心在于这一块
{% highlight java %}
 while(j >= 0 && i - j <= D){
     result = result < dp[j] ? result: dp[j];
     j --;
     }
     dp[i] = Math.max(earliestTime.get(i),result);
{% endhighlight %}
每一块叶子最早的到达时间一定大于等于是前D步内所有叶子的最短到达时间，同时，得到的时间还要和当前位置有落叶的时间比较一下取最大值。

